.TH VELY 2vv $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
application_setup \- Vely documentation (running_application)
.SH DESCRIPTION

.LP
.B INITIALIZE APPLICATION
.LP

A Vely application must be initialized first. This means creating a directory structure owned by application owner, which can be any Operating System user. To initialize application <app name> while logged-in as application owner: 

.RS 4
.EX

sudo vf -i -u $(whoami) <app name>

.EE
.RE


.LP
.B SETUP DATABASE(S)
.LP

If your application does not use database(s), you can skip this part.

You can setup your database(s) in any way you see fit, and this includes creating the database objects (such as tables or indexes) used by your application; all Vely needs to know is the connection parameters, which include database login information (but can include other things as well). For each database in use, you must provide \fBdatabase_config_file\fP along with your source code. This file contains the database connection parameters - these parameters are database-specific. For example, if your code has statements like:

.RS 4
.EX

run-query @mydb = ...

or

begin transaction @sales_db 

.EE
.RE

then you must have files "mydb" and "sales_db" present. For example, MariaDB config file might look like:

.RS 4
.EX

[client]
user=velyuser
password=pwd
database=velydb
protocol=TCP
host=127.0.0.1
port=3306

.EE
.RE

or for PostgreSQL:

.RS 4
.EX

user=myuser password=mypwd dbname=mydb

.EE
.RE


.LP
.B MAKE APPLICATION
.LP

To compile and link the application that doesn't use database(s):

.RS 4
.EX

vv -q 

.EE
.RE

When you have database(s) in use, for instance assuming in above example that "mydb" is MariaDB database, "sales_db" is PostgreSQL, and "contacts" is SQLite database:

.RS 4
.EX

vv -q --db="mariadb:mydb postgres:sales_db sqlite:contacts" 

.EE
.RE

See \fBvv\fP for more options.

.LP
.B START APPLICATION
.LP

Stop the application first in case it was running, then start the application:

.RS 4
.EX

vf -m quit <app name>
vf <app name>

.EE
.RE

See \fBvf\fP for more details.

.LP
.B RUNNING APPLICATION
.LP

You can run your application as \fBFastCGI\fP, \fBCGI\fP or \fBcommand_line\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
 \fIRunning application\fP ( \fBapplication_setup\fP   \fBCGI\fP   \fBClient_API\fP   \fBcommand_line\fP   \fBcontainerize_application\fP   \fBFastCGI\fP   \fBFastCGI_client\fP   \fBplain_C_FCGI\fP  )  \fISEE ALL\fP (\fBdocumentation\fP)
