.TH VELY 2vv $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
call-server \-  (distributed_computing)
.SH PURPOSE
Make a remote server request.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

call-server ( <server> [ ,... ] ) | \\
                ( <server> [ array-count <array count> ] ) \\
    [ status [ define ] <status> ]  \\
    [ started [ define ] <started> ] \\
    [ finished-okay [ define ] <finished okay> ] 

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
call-server will make FastCGI call(s) as described in a single <server>, a list of <server>s, or an array of <server>s. Unless only a single <server> is specified, each call will execute in parallel with others (as multiple threads).

<server> is a pointer to a variable of type "vv_fc". This variable must have been created with \fBnew-server\fP statement. 

A <server> call is made to a remote server. "Remote server" means a process accepting requests that is not the same process executing call-server; it may be running on the same or a different computer, or it may be a different process started by the very same application. 


.B - Multiple server calls in parallel

Executing multiple <server> calls in parallel is possible in two ways:

.RS 4
\[bu]    
Specify a list of <server>s separated by a comma, or

.RE

.RS 4
\[bu]    
Specify an array <server> variable containing <array count> elements (specified with "array-count" clause). Each element of <server> array must be a pointer to a variable of type "vv_fc"; each such variable must have been created by \fBnew-server\fP. This is convenient if you have a great many parallel server calls to make (for example dozens, hundreds or even thousands). <server> array must be indexed from 0. Here's an example, where an array of server calls ("srv_arr") is created via \fBnew-server\fP in a loop, and executed with a single call-server, then the results gathered via \fBread-server\fP - this is the same example as in \fBnew-server\fP with the exception that it's using an array of <server> variables:

.RS 4
.EX

\[char35]include "vely.h"
void srv() {
    out-header default
    char *upay[3]; // list of URL payloads
    vv_fc *srv_arr[3]; // array of servers
    num i;
    for (i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
        // build URL payload string
        (( upay[i]
        @/op/add/key/key_<<p-num i>>/data/data_<<p-num i>>"
        ))
        // Create resources (prepare) for 3 server calls
        new-server srv_arr[i] location "/var/lib/vv/hash/sock/sock" \\
            method "GET" app-path "/hash" request-path "/server" \\
            url-payload upay[i]
    }
    // Make 3 server calls in parallel, each in it own thread
    call-server srv_arr array-count 3 status define st \\
        started define start \\
        finished-okay define fok
    // Check if all calls were completed
    if (st == VV_OKAY) {
        @No errors from call-server
    }
    if (start == 3) {
        @All three server calls started.
    }
    if (fok == 3) {
        @All three server calls finished.
    }
    // Display output data from server calls
    for (i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
        read-server srv_arr[i] data define rdata
        p-out rdata
        @
    }
}

.EE
.RE


.RE

There is no limit on how many <server>s you can call at the same time; it is limited only by the underlying Operating System resources, such as threads/processes and sockets.


.B - Call status

Optional <status> (in "status" clause) will be VV_OKAY if all <server> calls have each returned VV_OKAY; this means all have started and all have finished with a valid message from the server; or VV_ERR_FAILED if at least one did not (for example if the server could not be contacted, if there was a network error etc.). Note that VV_OKAY does not mean that the reply is considered a success in any logical sense; only that the request was made and a reply was received according to the server protocol. 


.B - Request(s) status

Note that the actual application status for each <server>, as well as data returned and any application errors can be obtained via "request-status", "data"/"data-length" and "error"/"error-length" clauses of \fBread-server\fP statement, respectively.


.B - Request(s) duration

call-server will wait for all <server> requests to finish. For that reason, it is a good idea to specify "timeout" clause in \fBnew-server\fP for each <server> used, in order to limit the time you would wait. Use \fBread-server\fP to detect a timeout, in which case "request-status" clause would produce VV_FC_ERR_TIMEOUT.


.B - How many calls started and finished

Optional <started> (in "started" clause) will be the number of server calls that have started. Optional <finished okay> (in "finished-okay" clause) is the number of calls that have finished with return value of VV_OKAY as described above. By using <status>, <started> and <finished okay> you may surmise whether the results of call-server meet your expectations.

<status>, <started> and <finished okay> variables can be created with optional "define".


.B - Performance, security

call-server is faster than \fBcall-web\fP because it does not use HTTP protocol in addition to FastCGI; rather it only uses small and binary FastCGI protocol, which is extremenly fast, especially when using Unix sockets on the same machine (see \fBnew-server\fP). Note that FastCGI protocol does not have any inherent security built-in; that is part of the reason why it is fast. As such, it is very well suited for remote server calls on the same machine or between networked machines on a secure network. 

.SH EXAMPLES
See \fBnew-server\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
 
.B - Distributed computing

\fBcall-server\fP  
\fBdelete-server\fP  
\fBnew-server\fP  
\fBread-server\fP    
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
