.TH VELY 2vv $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
delete-query \-  (database)
.SH PURPOSE
Delete memory associated with a query.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

delete-query <query name> [ skip-data ] 

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
A named query (see clause "name" in \fBrun-query\fP) can be deleted with delete-query by specifying the <query name>. Deletion means that all memory allocated for a query will be freed. It means query results will be freed as well. Do not delete query if its results are still referenced afterwards. 

However, if "skip-data" clause is used, then the query results will not be deleted; rather everything else will be. This means the results of \fBquery-result\fP statement or "output define" clause in \fBrun-query\fP statement will not be freed. This is useful if you want to keep the results of a query and otherwise release all of its resources. Note that the results will remain allocated even if you do not obtain them via "query-result" or "output define" clause, for instance.

Make sure not to delete anything twice. For instance, do not use \fBdelete-mem\fP to delete query data such as error message, column name or results, while using delete-query as well. By the same token, if you use "skip-data", you can use delete-mem to free query results later.

See \fBmemory-handling\fP for more on when (not) to delete memory explicitly like this; the same rules apply as for \fBdelete-mem\fP.

.SH EXAMPLES

.RS 4
.EX

run-query @db="drop table if exists test" no-loop name drop_query
delete-query drop_query

.EE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
 
.B - Database

\fBbegin-transaction\fP  
\fBcommit-transaction\fP  
\fBcurrent-row\fP  
\fBdatabase-config-file\fP  
\fBdatabase-queries\fP  
\fBdelete-query\fP  
\fBon-error\fP  
\fBprepared-statements\fP  
\fBquery-result\fP  
\fBrollback-transaction\fP  
\fBrun-query\fP    
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
