.TH VELY 2vv $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
delete-cookie \-  (cookies)
.SH PURPOSE
Deletes a cookie.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

delete-cookie <cookie name> [ path <cookie path> ] [ status [ define ] <status> ] [ secure <secure> ]

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
delete-cookie marks a cookie named <cookie name> for deletion, so it is sent back in the reply telling the client (such as browser) to delete it. 

Newer client implementations require a cookie deletion to use a secure context if the cookie is considered secure, and it is recommended to use "secure" clause to delete such a cookie. This is the case when either "secure" clause is used without optional boolean expression <secure>, or if <secure> evaluates to true.

<cookie name> is a cookie that was either received from the client as a part of the request, or was added with \fBset-cookie\fP. 

A cookie can be deleted before or after sending out a header (see \fBout-header\fP). However a cookie must be deleted prior to outputting any actual response (such as with \fBoutput_statement\fP or \fBp-out\fP for example), or the program will error out and stop.

<status> (in the optional "status" clause) is the integer variable (which can be created with optional "define") that will be -1 if the cookie did not exist, or 0 or greater if it did.

The same cookie name may be stored under different URL paths. You can use the optional "path" clause to specify <cookie path> to ensure the desired cookie is deleted. 

.SH EXAMPLES

.RS 4
.EX

delete-cookie "my_cookie"
bool is_secure = true;
delete-cookie "my_cookie" path "/path" secure is_secure

.EE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
 
.B - Cookies

\fBdelete-cookie\fP  
\fBget-cookie\fP  
\fBset-cookie\fP    
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
