.TH VELY 2vv $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
derive-key \-  (encryption)
.SH PURPOSE
Derive a key.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

derive-key [ define ] <key> from <source> length <length> \\
    [ binary [ <binary> ] ] \\
    [ from-length <source length> ] \\
    [ digest <digest algorithm> ] \\
    [ salt <salt> [ salt-length <salt length> ] ] \\
    [ iterations <iterations> ] 

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
derive-key derives <key> (which can be created with optional "define") from string <source> in "from" clause. <key> is \fBallocated memory\fP. If <source length> in "from-length" clause is specified, exactly <source length> bytes of <source> are used, regardless of null bytes. Otherwise, the length of a null-terminated <source> string is used as the number of bytes. 

The length of derived key is given by <length> in "length" clause. The method for key generation is PBKDF2. By default the digest used is "SHA256". You can use a different <digest algorithm> in "digest" clause (for example "SHA3-256"). To see a list of available digests:

.RS 4
.EX

\[char35]get digests
openssl list -digest-algorithms

.EE
.RE

The optional salt for key derivation can be given with <salt> in "salt" clause. If "salt-length" clause is not used, then the salt is null-terminated, otherwise its length is <salt length>.

The number of iterations is given by <iterations> in "iterations" clause. The default is 1000 per \fBRFC 8018\fP, though depending on your needs and the quality of <source> you may choose a different value.

By default, the derived key is produced as a null-terminated string in a hexadecimal form, where each byte is encoded as two-character hexadecimal characters, so its length is 2*<length>. If "binary" clause is used without optional boolean expression <binary>, or if <binary> evaluates to true, then the output is a binary string of <length> bytes, and a null byte is placed after it.

Key derivation is often used when storing password-derivatives in the database (with salt), and also for symmetrical key generation.

.SH EXAMPLES
Derived key is in variable "mk":

.RS 4
.EX

random-string to define rs9 length 16
derive-key define mk from "clave secreta" digest "sha-256" salt rs9 salt-length 10 iterations 2000 length 16

.EE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
 \fIEncryption\fP ( \fBdecrypt-data\fP   \fBderive-key\fP   \fBencrypt-data\fP   \fBhash-string\fP   \fBrandom-crypto\fP   \fBrandom-string\fP  )  \fISEE ALL\fP (\fBdocumentation\fP)
