.TH VELY 2vv $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
example_utility \- Vely documentation (examples)
.SH DESCRIPTION
In this example, a temperature measuring device will periodically insert temperatures into a database table, along with a timestamp. The purpose is to read this history and output the result from time to time, which can then be piped or sent elsewhere.

In a nutshell: SQLite; command line; Unix sockets; \fB2 source files, 25 lines of code\fP.

.LP
.B SCREENSHOTS OF APPLICATION
.LP

Adding a record to the database, for example to record a temperature reading of 91F:
(Image utility_show_insert.png not available in man page, see web page documentation)
To view the current database in chronological order:
(Image utility_list.png not available in man page, see web page documentation)

.LP
.B SETUP PREREQUISITES
.LP

\fBInstall Vely\fP - you can use standard packaging tools such as \fBapt\fP, \fBdnf\fP, \fBpacman\fP or \fBzypper\fP.

Because they are used in this example, you will need to install \fBNginx\fP as a web server and \fBSQLite\fP as a database.

After installing Vely, turn on syntax highlighting in vim if you're using it:

.RS 4
.EX

vv -m

.EE
.RE


.LP
.B GET THE SOURCE CODE
.LP

The source code is a part of Vely installation. It is a good idea to create a separate source code directory for each application (and you can name it whatever you like). In this case, unpacking the source code will do that for you:

.RS 4
.EX

tar xvf $(vv -o)/examples/utility.tar.gz
cd utility

.EE
.RE

.LP
.B SETUP APPLICATION
.LP

The very first step is to create an application. The application will be named "utility", but you can name it anything (if you do that, change it everywhere). It's simple to do with \fBvf\fP:

.RS 4
.EX

sudo vf -i -u $(whoami) utility

.EE
.RE

This will create a new application home (which is "/var/lib/vv/utility") and do the application setup for you. Mostly that means create various subdirectories in the home folder, and assign them privileges. In this case only current user (or the result of "whoami" Linux command) will own those directories with 0700 privileges; it means a secure setup.

.LP
.B SETUP THE DATABASE
.LP

Before any coding, you need some place to store the information used by the application. First, create SQLite database "db_utility". You can change the database name, but remember to change it everywhere here. And then, create database objects in the database.

Execute the following to create database "utility.db" and also setup the database objects needed for the example:

.RS 4
.EX

sqlite3 /var/lib/vv/utility/app/utility.db < setup.sql

.EE
.RE

The SQLite database will be in the application home directory (see \fBhow_vely_works\fP):

.RS 4
.EX

/var/lib/vv/utility/app

.EE
.RE


.LP
.B CONNECT VELY TO A DATABASE
.LP

In order to let Vely know where your database is and how to log into it, you will create \fBdatabase_config_file\fP named "db_utility". This name doesn't have to be "db_utility", rather it can be anything - this is the name used in actual database statements in source code (like \fBrun-query\fP), so if you change it, make sure you change it everywhere. Create it:

.RS 4
.EX

echo '/var/lib/vv/utility/app/utility.db' > db_utility

.EE
.RE

The above in general is a location of SQLite database and is all that's needed to connect to it.

.LP
.B BUILD APPLICATION
.LP

Use \fBvv\fP utility to make the application:

.RS 4
.EX

vv -q --db=sqlite:db_utility 

.EE
.RE

Note usage of --db option to specify SQLite database and the database configuration file name.

.LP
.B RUN PROGRAM FROM COMMAND LINE
.LP

Execute the following to run your application from command line (as a command-line utility):

.RS 4
.EX

\[char35]Record a temperature to 91F
export REQUEST_METHOD=GET
export SCRIPT_NAME='/utility'
export PATH_INFO='/temphist'
export QUERY_STRING='action=record&temp=91'
/var/lib/vv/bld/utility/utility

\[char35]List recorded temperatures
export REQUEST_METHOD=GET
export SCRIPT_NAME='/utility'
export PATH_INFO='/temphist'
export QUERY_STRING='action=list'
/var/lib/vv/bld/utility/utility

.EE
.RE

Note: to suppress output of HTTP headers, add this before running /var/lib/vv/bld/utility/utility program:

.RS 4
.EX

export VV_SILENT_HEADER=yes

.EE
.RE


.SH FILES
You are now done with the example! What follows are the source files in this project so you can examine how it works:

.LP
.B RECORDING TEMPERATURE READINGS IN A TABLE (SETUP.SQL)
.LP

There is a "temp" column (temperature reading) and "timest" (time stamp of the reading). Table name is "temps" (temperatures).

.RS 4
.EX

create table temps (temp integer, timest text primary key);

.EE
.RE


.LP
.B UTILITY FOR RECORDING TEMPERATURES (TEMPHIST.VELY)
.LP

This application will record temperatures, as well as list them. The source code in "temphist.vely" file is fairly self-explanatory. If input parameter "action" is "record", store the temperature into table "temps" and check for any errors. If it is "list", just display all the temperature records in a historical order.

.RS 4
.EX

// SPDX-License-Identifier: EPL-2.0
// Copyright 2018 DaSoftver LLC.
\[char35]include "vely.h"

void temphist() {
    out-header default

    task-param action

    if-task "record"
        input-param temp
        run-query @db_utility = "insert into temps (temp, timest) values ('%s', current_timestamp)" : temp \\
            affected-rows define rc error-text define er no-loop
        if (rc != 1) {
            @Could not insert temperature reading, error <<p-out er>>.
        } else {
            @Temperature reading stored.
        }
    else-task "list"
        run-query @db_utility = "select temp, timest from temps order by timest" output temp, timest
            @Date: <<query-result  timest>>
            @Temperature: <<query-result  temp>>
        end-query
    end-task
}

.EE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
 
.B - Examples

\fBexample_cookies\fP  
\fBexample_create_table\fP  
\fBexample_docker\fP  
\fBexample_encryption_ciphers_digests_salt_hands_on_guide\fP  
\fBexample_file_manager\fP  
\fBexample_form\fP  
\fBexample_hash_server\fP  
\fBexample_hello_world\fP  
\fBexample_json\fP  
\fBexample_multitenant_SaaS\fP  
\fBexamples\fP  
\fBexample_sendmail\fP  
\fBexample_shopping\fP  
\fBexample_stock\fP  
\fBexample_utility\fP  
\fBexample_write_report\fP    
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
