.TH VELY 2vv $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
get-sys \-  (system_information)
.SH PURPOSE
Obtain data that describes the system.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

get-sys \\
    environment <var name> | web-environment <var name> \\
        directory | os-name | os-version \\
    to [ define ] <variable>

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
System-describing variables can be obtained with get-sys statement and the result stored into <variable>. The following system variables can be obtained:

.RS 4
\[bu]    
"environment" returns the name of a given environment variable <var name> from the Operating System, such as in the following example, the HOME variable (i.e. the path to user's home directory):

.RS 4
.EX

get-sys environment "HOME" to define home_dir

.EE
.RE

Generally, environmental variable needs to be set before starting the \fBvf\fP program manager, or set during the program execution.

.RE

.RS 4
\[bu]    
"web-environment" returns the name of a given environment variable <var name> from the web server, such as in the following example, the QUERY_STRING variable (i.e. the actual query string from URL):

.RS 4
.EX

get-sys web-environment "QUERY_STRING" to define home_dir

.EE
.RE

Note that the same name can be used for both Operating System environment variable (the "environment" clause) and for Web Server environment variable ("web-environment" clause), hence two separate clauses for them.

.RE

.RS 4
\[bu]    
"directory" is the execution directory of the \fBcommand_line\fP program, i.e. the current working directory when the program was executed. Note that Vely will change the current working directory immediately afterwards to the application home directory (see \fBhow_vely_works\fP). You can use this clause to work with files in the directory where the program was started. If your program runs as an application server (see \fBFastCGI\fP), then "directory" clause always returns application home directory, regardless of which directory \fBvf\fP program manager started your application.

.RE

.RS 4
\[bu]    
"os-name" is the name of Operating System.

.RE

.RS 4
\[bu]    
"os-version" is the version of Operating System.
.RE

Note that all the string values above should be treated as constants - do not change them as that may cause program to malfunction. If you want to alter any of these values, make a copy first (see \fBcopy-string\fP).

.SH EXAMPLES
Get the name of the Operating System

.RS 4
.EX

get-sys os-name to define os_name

.EE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
 
.B - System information

\fBget-sys\fP  
\fBOS_conditional_compilation\fP    
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
