.TH VELY 2vv $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
get-time \-  (time)
.SH PURPOSE
Get time.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

get-time to [ define ] <time var> \\
    [ timezone <tz> ] \\
    [ year <year> ] \\
    [ month <month> ] \\
    [ day <day> ] \\
    [ hour <hour> ] \\
    [ minute <minute> ] \\
    [ second <second> ] \\
    [ format <format> ]

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
get-time produces <time var> variable that contains string with time. <time var> is \fBallocated memory\fP.

If none of "year", "month", "day", "hour", "minute" or "second" clauses are used, then current time is produced. If variable <time var> does not exist, you can use define clause to create it within the statement.

Use timezone to specify that time produced will be in timezone <tz>. For example if <tz> is "EST", that means Eastern Standard Time, while "MST" means Mountain Standard Time. The exact way to get a full list of timezones recognized on your system may vary, but on many systems you can use:

.RS 4
.EX

timedatectl list-timezones

.EE
.RE

So for example to get the time in Phoenix, Arizona you could use "America/Phoenix" for <tz>. If timezone clause is omitted, then time is produced in "GMT" timezone by default. DST (Daylight Savings Time) is automatically adjusted.

Each variable specified with "year", "month", "day", "hour", "minute" or "second" is a time to be added or subtracted. For example "year 2" means add 2 years to the current data, and "year -4" means subtract 4 years, whereas "hour -4" means  subtract 4 hours, etc. So for example, a moment in time that is 2 years into the future minus 5 days minus 1 hour is:

.RS 4
.EX

get-time to time_var year 2 day -5 hour -1

.EE
.RE

<format> allows you to get the time in any string format you like, using the specifiers available in C "strftime". For example, if <format> is "%A, %B %d %Y, %l:%M %p %Z", it will produce something like "Sunday, November 28 2021, 9:07 PM MST". The default format is "UTC/GMT" format, which for instance, is suitable for use with cookie timestamps, and looks something like "Mon, 16 Jul 2012 00:03:01 GMT".

.SH EXAMPLES
To get current time in "GMT" timezone, in a format that is suitable for use with \fBset-cookie\fP (for example to set expiration date):

.RS 4
.EX

get-time to define mytime

.EE
.RE

To get the time in the same format, only 1 year and 2 months in the future:

.RS 4
.EX

get-time to define mytime year 1 month 2

.EE
.RE

An example of a future date (1 year, 3 months, 4 days, 7 hours, 15 minutes and 22 seconds into the future), in a specific format (see "strftime"):

.RS 4
.EX

get-time to time_var timezone "MST" year 1 month 3 day 4 hour 7 minute 15 second 22 format "%A, %B %d %Y, %l:%M %p %Z"

.EE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
 
.B - Time

\fBget-time\fP    
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
