.TH VELY 2vv $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
set-input \-  (request_information)
.SH PURPOSE
Set or overwrite input parameters.

.SH SYNTAX
set-input <param name> = <param value>
.SH DESCRIPTION
set-input sets or overwrites an \fBinput-param\fPeter. <param name> is a string that holds parameter name and <param value> is a string that holds parameter value.

If an input parameter with <param name> already exists, it's value is overwritten with <param value>. 

If an input parameter with <param name> does not exist, a new parameter is created and its value is set to <param value>.

Note that no copy of <param value> is made. If it will go out of scope before it's used, make a copy first (see \fBcopy-string\fP).

set-input is useful when input parameters supplied through a \fBrequest\fP need to be altered or added-to so your code can process them more efficiently, to write less code etc.

Once set-input sets parameter value, using \fBinput-param\fP will obtain it as if it was provided through a request URL. 

Note that \fBinput-param\fP creates a variable, so you cannot use it twice in the same scope. Typically, set-input is used to set input parameter values, while another code block or function will use input-param to obtain those values.

.SH EXAMPLES
Set the value of input parameter named "quantity" to "0", which is also the output:

.RS 4
.EX

set-input "quantity" = "0"
\[char46]..
input-param quantity
p-out quantity

.EE
.RE

Set the value of input parameter named "description" to "not available", which is also the output:

.RS 4
.EX

char *name = "description";
set-input name = "not available"
\[char46]..
input-param description
p-out description

.EE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
 
.B - Request information

\fBget-req\fP  
\fBinput-param\fP  
\fBrequest-body\fP  
\fBset-input\fP  
\fBset-req\fP    
See all 
\fBdocumentation\fP
