.TH VELY 2vv $VERSION $DATE Development Tools
.SH NAME
stat-file \-  (files)
.SH PURPOSE
Get information about a file.

.SH SYNTAX

.RS 4
.EX

stat-file <file> \\
    size | type | path | name \\
    to [ define ] <variable>

.EE
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
stat-file gets information about <file>, which is either the full path of a file or directory, or a name relative to the application home directory (see \fBhow_vely_works\fP). 

Clause "size" will store file's size in bytes to <variable>, or it will be VV_ERR_FAILED (if operation failed, likely because file does not exist or you have no permissions to access it). 

Clause "type" will store file's type to number <variable>, and it can be either VV_FILE (if it's a file) or VV_DIR (if it's a directory) or VV_ERR_FAILED (if operation failed, likely because file does not exist or you have no permissions to access it). 

Clause "path" gets the fully resolved path of the <file> (including symbolic links), and "name" is the name (a basename, without the path). The results of both "path" and "name" clauses are \fBallocated memory\fP. If path cannot be resolved, then <variable> is an empty string.

.SH EXAMPLES
To get file size in variable "sz", which is created here:

.RS 4
.EX

stat-file "/home/user/file" size to define sz

.EE
.RE

To determine if the object is a file or a directory:

.RS 4
.EX

stat-file "/home/user/some_name" type to define what
if (what == VV_FILE) {
   @It's a file!
} else if (what == VV_DIR) {
   @It's a directory!
} else {
   @Doesn't exist!
}

.EE
.RE

Get the fully resolved path of a file to string variable "fp", which is created here.

.RS 4
.EX

stat-file "../file" path to define fp 

.EE
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
 \fIFiles\fP ( \fBclose-file\fP   \fBcopy-file\fP   \fBdelete-file\fP   \fBfile-position\fP   \fBfile_storage\fP   \fBfile_uploading\fP   \fBlock-file\fP   \fBopen-file\fP   \fBread-file\fP   \fBread-line\fP   \fBrename-file\fP   \fBstat-file\fP   \fBtemporary_file\fP   \fBuniq-file\fP   \fBunlock-file\fP   \fBwrite-file\fP  )  \fISEE ALL\fP (\fBdocumentation\fP)
